suggested edits (#272)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve: draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve.md

| F,q,p | Finite field F of characteristic p and #F = q = p^m. | For prime fields, q = p; otherwise, q = p^m and m>1. |
| E | Elliptic curve. | E is specified by an equation and a field F. |
| n | Number of points on the elliptic curve E. | n = h * r, for h and r defined below. |

> | G | A prime-order subgroup of the points on E. | Most cryptographic protocols operate on G. |

Author: The reason I suggested this change is that it seems like talking about G as a destination for an encoding is use-before-def: we haven't defined the term encoding or mapping yet.

> | G | A prime-order subgroup of the points on E. | Most cryptographic protocols operate on G. |

Author: hmm, I think you're right. I will revert.

whose output distribution is indistinguishable from uniformly random.
Some protocols require a random oracle for security, while others can
be securely instantiated with a nonuniform encoding.

> When the required encoding is not clear, applications SHOULD use a random oracle.

Reviewer: Does the document needs to warn implementers something along the lines
"do not be tempted to chose encode_to_curve over hash_to_curve due its performance" ?

Author: Sorry, this was a bad edit on my part. I put the sentence back.

Care is required when constructing a random oracle from a mapping function.
A simple but insecure approach is to use the output of a cryptographically
secure hash function as the input to the mapping.
Because in general the mapping is not surjective, the output of this
construction is distinguishable from uniformly random, i.e., it does
not behave like a random oracle.

> The construction described in {{roadmap}} is indifferentiable from a random

Reviewer 2: 👍

Reviewer: We should also give credit to {{BCIMRT10}} as it was proposed earlier.

### Domain separation {#term-domain-separation}

> Cryptographic protocols whose security relies on random oracles are often analyzed

Reviewer: It this more accurate?

```suggestion
Cryptographic protocols proven secure in the random oracle model are often analyzed
```

Author: I pushed another commit that addresses this.

elliptic curve E defined over F.
Since Hf takes arbitrary-length byte strings as inputs, it cannot be injective:
the set of inputs is larger than the set of outputs, so there must
be distinct inputs that give the same output (i.e., there must be collisions).
Thus, any encoding built from Hf is also not injective.

Like mappings, encodings may be invertible, meaning that there is an efficient
algorithm that, for any point P output by the encoding, outputs a string s
such that applying the encoding to s outputs P.
The instantiation of Hf used by all encodings specified in this document ({{hashtofield}})
is not invertible. Thus, the encodings are also not invertible.

In some applications of hashing to elliptic curves, it is important that
encodings do not leak information through side channels.
{{VR20}} is one example of this type of leakage leading to a security vulnerability.
{{security-considerations}} discusses further.

### Random oracle encodings {#term-rom}

Two different types of encodings are possible: nonuniform encodings,
whose output distribution of points is not uniformly random, and random
oracle encodings, whose output distribution is indistinguishable from uniformly

> random points. Some applications require a random oracle encoding for security, while

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should be "protocols", given that the choice of which is made by "protocol designers" (below).

encoding used in ciphersuite \<yy\>.

As another example, consider a fictional protocol named Baz that requires
two independent random oracles to the same curve.
Reasonable choices of tags for these oracles are
"BAZ-V\<xx\>-CS\<yy\>-\<suiteID\>-ENC1" and "BAZ-V\<xx\>-CS\<yy\>-\<suiteID\>-ENC2",
respectively, where \<xx\>, \<yy\>, and \<suiteID\> are as described above.

# Utility functions {#utility}

Algorithms in this document make use of utility functions described below.

> For constant-time implementations, all field operations, comparisons, and

Reviewer 2: Reading this piece out of context, I wonder if someone might conclude, "oh, so if I don't want constant time, I can ignore these steps." The previous text made it clear that this is necessary "for security reasons." Maybe we can bring that back by saying, "Each function MUST be implemented in constant time. To do so, all field operations..."?

Author: Good point. I was intending to flag this edit as something we should discuss:

I'm not convinced it makes sense to say that implementations MUST be constant time, for a few reasons. First, it's not always the case that protocols require constant-time implementations, which I think implies SHOULD rather than must. Second, it's not obvious what it means to require something like this---do we mean that one is just not allowed to implement hash-to-curve in (say) Python, where it's basically impossible to guarantee constant time? (In this case, our reference implementations aren't technically conforming!)

I'd be glad to make this a SHOULD rather than a MUST.

Author: Related to the above: in other places in the document it seems like we're more ambivalent about SHOULD vs MUST for constant time. So if we decide that this will be a MUST rather than a SHOULD, we should (must? :smile:) do a sweep for consistency.

Author: See also the very first sentence of security considerations:

    When constant-time implementations are required, all basic operations and
    utility functions must be implemented in constant time, as discussed in
    {{utility}}.

Author: Thinking about this more: it seems like it might make sense to add or expand a paragraph in the Security Considerations section to address constant timeness.

Author: Just pushed a slightly expanded discussion.

Reviewer 2: The new text works for me!

encoding used in ciphersuite \<yy\>.

As another example, consider a fictional protocol named Baz that requires
two independent random oracles to the same curve.
Reasonable choices of tags for these oracles are
"BAZ-V\<xx\>-CS\<yy\>-\<suiteID\>-ENC1" and "BAZ-V\<xx\>-CS\<yy\>-\<suiteID\>-ENC2",
respectively, where \<xx\>, \<yy\>, and \<suiteID\> are as described above.

# Utility functions {#utility}

Algorithms in this document make use of utility functions described below.

For security, implementations of these functions SHOULD be constant-time,
i.e., execution time SHOULD NOT depend on the values of the inputs.
For such constant-time implementations, all field operations, comparisons, and
assignments MUST be implemented in constant time.
Guidance on implementing these low-level operations in constant time is
beyond the scope of this document.

-   CMOV(a, b, c): If c is False, CMOV returns a, otherwise it returns b.
    For constant-time implementations, this operation must run in

>     time independent of the value of c.

Reviewer 2: We include an examples of how to compute is_square and inv0 in constant time using -- why drop the example here?

Author: Ah, I actually didn't realize it was intended as an example. When I read through this it seemed like a low-level implementation detail rather than an example. Also, I'm pretty sure at this point all of the uses of CMOV in the document actually pass in a boolean value, which means it's not necessary to describe the case where there's a bitstring C rather than a boolean c. I can double check this...

Author: I went back and checked. Every use of CMOV in this document takes a boolean value as its third operand, so there shouldn't be any need for the extra explanation that I cut here. We could still bring it back if you want, but it does not seem necessary given the rest of the text.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Thanks! I think this was leftover from a previous draft where the value was non-binary.

    two roots of x in the field F whenever x is square.
    To maintain compatibility across implementations while allowing implementors
    leeway for optimizations, this document does not require sqrt() to return a
    particular value. Instead, as explained in {{point-sign}}, any function that

>     calls sqrt also specifies how to determine the correct result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    calls sqrt also specifies how to determine the correct root.
```

- MUST give independent values for distinct (msg, DST, length) inputs.
Meeting this requirement is subtle.

> As a simplified example, hashing msg \|\| DST does not work,

Reviewer 2: Did this not render correctly for you? It was fine in the txt and html files for me.

Author: I think this one did, but then I went through and removed all the escapes and some of them didn't render correctly (I think kramdown thought they were starting tables or something weird). So then I went back through and escaped all of them because I wasn't sure which ones would work and which ones wouldn't...

A hash-to-curve suite fully specifies the procedure for hashing byte strings
to points on a specific elliptic curve group.
{{suites-howto}} describes how to implement a suite.

> Designers specifying an application that requires hashing to an elliptic curve

Reviewer 2: We use "protocol designers" above and "application designers" here -- why the difference?

additional parameters Z, M, rational\_map, E', and/or iso\_map.
These MUST be specified when applicable.

The below table lists suites RECOMMENDED for some elliptic curves.
The corresponding parameters are given in the following subsections.

> Suites that use nonuniform encodings MUST NOT be used in protocols whose security

Reviewer 2: We flip from using applications before the suite details, to protocols after. I don't understand the difference. (A protocol whose security depends on hash-to-curve is an application of hash-to-curve, in my view.)

Author: I revisited this with fresh eyes and pushed some more edits.

analysis relies on a random oracle.

> Moreover, applications that use a nonuniform encoding SHOULD carefully

Reviewer 2: And we use applications here.

Author: Revisited this, too.

Each encoding type ({{roadmap}}) accepts an arbitrary byte string and maps
it to a point on the curve sampled from a distribution that depends on the
encoding type.

> It is important to note that using a nonuniform encoding and/or directly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to note that using a nonuniform encoding or directly
```

evaluating one of the mappings of {{mappings}} produces an output that is
easily distinguished from a random point.
Protocols that use a nonuniform encoding SHOULD carefully analyze the security
implications of using this encoding.

> When the required encoding is not clear, applications SHOULD use a random

Reviewer 2: Unrelated to this change, but we should probably unify on terminology regarding the callers of hash-to-curve: we use applications and protocols in different places. I prefer applications, as it's more general and includes protocols.

Author: Good point. Opened #273.

who learns the output of the hash function (or potentially any intermediate value,
e.g., the output of hash\_to\_field) may be able to carry out a dictionary attack.
To mitigate such attacks, it is recommended to first execute a more costly key
derivation function (e.g., PBKDF2 {{?RFC2898}} or scrypt {{?RFC7914}}) on the password,
then hash the output of that function to the target elliptic curve.
For collision resistance, the hash underlying the key derivation function
should be chosen according to the guidelines listed in {{hashtofield-expand}}.

Constant-time implementations of all functions in this document are STRONGLY

> RECOMMENDED for all uses, to avoid leaking information via side channels.

Reviewer 2: Should we reference {{VR20}} again here (or after "for security against timing attacks" below)?

## Domain separation recommendations {#security-considerations-domain-separation}

As discussed in {{term-domain-separation}}, the purpose of domain separation
is to ensure that security analyses of cryptographic protocols that query
multiple independent random oracles remain valid even if all of these random

> oracles are instantiated base on one underlying function H.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oracles are instantiated based on one underlying function H.
```

The authors would like to thank Adam Langley for his detailed writeup of Elligator 2 with
Curve25519 {{L13}};

> Dan Boneh, Christopher Patton, Benjamin Lipp, and Leonid Reyzin for educational discussions;

Reviewer 2: 👍
